# Optimized_Pneumonia_Classification_from_chestxray_images

Dataset link - https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia

Pneumonia is a lung infection that leads to accumulation of fluids in the lungs. Pneumonia impacts 7% of world population and early detection is necessary for the effective treatment. The diagnosis is done by radiologists examining the chest X-rays and determining the abnormalities in the image. The low-quality image and shortage of time in examination can often lead to making bad predictions, therefore Computer Aided Diagnosis is proposed to make better decision as it enhances the image and help in prediction. The proposed model utilizes openly available Kaggle dataset for development of an effective classifier. Deep Learning segmentation models are used to generate the Binary masks. The generated mask was utilized in feature extraction which was done using open-source python library pyradiomics. 93 features were generated and followed by training 5 classification model with hyperparameter tuning. The best classifier was used as base model for making feature selection using conventional feature selection models. Feature selection helps in selecting best subset of features which help in making better prediction. F1-score was taken as the evaluation parameter and based on the analysis Random Forest along with correlation-based feature selection produced the best result. The result obtained was used for underlying working model for web app. The web app receives the input as image and produces output as whether person as pneumonia or not. In conclusion better CAD system was built using all the above-mentioned procedures.
